docs/user-guides/how_to_run_a_notebook.md, before:

[Return to Table of Contents](../user.md)

# How to Run a Jupyter Notebook

### Before we get started, what is Jupyter Notebook?
- [Intro to Jupyter Notebook](jupyter_notebook_intro.md)

## Selecting Cells
#### Select a Single Cell in Non-Edit Mode
- Click to the left of a cell

![Selected cell in non-edit mode](../assets/select_cell_non_edit_mode.png)

*A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a blue left edge*

---
 
#### Select Multiple Cells in Non-Edit Mode
1. Select a cell in non-edit mode
2. Select additional cells with:
    - `Shift + J` or `Shift + Down-Arrow` to select additional cells below
    - `Shift + K` or `Shift + Up-Arrow` to select additional cells above
3. Perform batch operations on selected cells

![Multpile selected cells](../assets/select_mult_cells.png)

*Multiple selected cells are surrounded by a blue highlighted box*

---

#### Select a Code Cell in Edit Mode
- Click inside a cell

![Selected code cell in edit mode](../assets/select_cell_edit_mode.png) 

*A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge*

---
 
#### Select a Markdown Cell in Edit Mode
- Double click inside a cell

![Markdown cell in edit mode](../assets/markdown_cell_edit_mode.png) 

*A markdown cell in edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge*

---
 
 
## Running Cells
![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](../assets/cell_numbers.png)

*Since code cells may run in any order, they are numbered in the order they ran.*
 
---

### Run a Single Code or Markdown Cell
#### With the Run Button
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
1. Click the Run button

![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](../assets/run_button.png)

*Click the Run button to run a selected cell*

---
 
#### With Hotkeys 
- Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
    - `Ctrl + Enter` runs a cell
    - `Shift + Enter` runs a cell and selects the cell below
    - `Alt + Enter` runs a cell and inserts an empty cell below

### Run a Cell and every Cell Above or Below It
- Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
    - Select `Run All Above` from the Cell Menu
    - Select `Run All Below` from the Cell menu

### Run a batch of selected cells
- Select a group of cells
    - Click the `Run` Button
    - Select `Run Cells` from the "Cells Menu"

### Run an Entire Notebook
- Select `Run All` from the "Cells Menu" (does not restart the kernel)
- Select `Restart & Run All` from the Kernel Menu (restarts kernel)

### Rerunning a Notebook
It is a recommended to restart the notebook kernel before rerunning a notebook. This is because any initialized variables and data structures from a previous run will be stored in memory along with their values, which can lead to unintended results.

An example of how you might get into trouble would be a code cell that creates a new subdirectory directory in your current working directory called "data" and moves into it. If you start in ~/notebooks, then after running the code cell once, you will be in ~/notebooks/data. If you run the cell a second time, you will be in ~notebooks/data/data. If you keep rerunning the cell, you will find yourself inside a deeply nested data directory, ~notebooks/data/data/data/data/data/data/. 
  
- Select `Restart` from the Kernel Menu
- Select `Restart & Clear Output` from the Kernel Menu
- Select `Restart & Run All` from the Kernel Menu

## Clearing Cell Output Before Closing
<!-- what is "volume" referring to? -->
It is recommended to clear every output from each code cells prior to closing or saving a notebook. Leaving the output in place can increase file size of notebook, which will use up more of your volume as well as slower loading time for utlizing notebook (especially if you have a slow internet connection).

Commit message:

how_to_run - completed first draft.

docs/user-guides/how_to_run_a_notebook.md, after:

[Return to Table of Contents](../user.md)

# How to Run a Jupyter Notebook

### Before we get started, what is Jupyter Notebook?
- [Intro to Jupyter Notebook](jupyter_notebook_intro.md)

## Selecting Cells
#### Select a Single Cell in Non-Edit Mode
- Click to the left of a cell

![Selected cell in non-edit mode](../assets/select_cell_non_edit_mode.png)

*A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a blue left edge*

---
 
#### Select Multiple Cells in Non-Edit Mode
1. Select a cell in non-edit mode
2. Select additional cells with:
    - `Shift + J` or `Shift + Down-Arrow` to select additional cells below
    - `Shift + K` or `Shift + Up-Arrow` to select additional cells above
3. Perform batch operations on selected cells

![Multpile selected cells](../assets/select_mult_cells.png)

*Multiple selected cells are surrounded by a blue highlighted box*

---

#### Select a Code Cell in Edit Mode
- Click inside a cell

![Selected code cell in edit mode](../assets/select_cell_edit_mode.png) 

*A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge*

---
 
#### Select a Markdown Cell in Edit Mode
- Double click inside a cell

![Markdown cell in edit mode](../assets/markdown_cell_edit_mode.png) 

*A markdown cell in edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge*

---
 
 
## Running Cells
![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](../assets/cell_numbers.png)

*Since code cells may run in any order, they are numbered in the order they ran.*
 
---

### Run a Single Code or Markdown Cell
#### With the Run Button
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
1. Click the Run button

![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](../assets/run_button.png)

*Click the Run button to run a selected cell*

---
 
#### With Hotkeys 
- Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
    - `Ctrl + Enter` runs a cell
    - `Shift + Enter` runs a cell and selects the cell below
    - `Alt + Enter` runs a cell and inserts an empty cell below

### Run a Cell and every Cell Above or Below It
- Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
    - Select `Run All Above` from the Cell Menu
    - Select `Run All Below` from the Cell menu

### Run a batch of selected cells
- Select a group of cells
    - Click the `Run` Button
    - Select `Run Cells` from the "Cells Menu"

### Run an Entire Notebook
- Select `Run All` from the "Cells Menu" (does not restart the kernel)
- Select `Restart & Run All` from the Kernel Menu (restarts kernel)

### Rerunning a Notebook
It is a recommended to restart the notebook kernel before rerunning a notebook. This is because any initialized variables and data structures from a previous run will be stored in memory along with their values, which can lead to unintended results.

*Example of unintended results:* Consider a case where you have a operation that creates a new subdirectory and goes inside. *i.e.* You are in `~/notebooks/` first but will be in `~/notebooks/data/` after running the cell.\
If you run this cell more than once, you will fid yourself inside a nested directory. *e.g.* Running this cell `n` times will result in `~notebooks/data/data/data/data/data/data/...`.

<!-- An example of how you might get into trouble would be a code cell that creates a new subdirectory directory in your current working directory called "data" and moves into it. If you start in ~/notebooks, then after running the code cell once, you will be in ~/notebooks/data. If you run the cell a second time, you will be in ~notebooks/data/data. If you keep rerunning the cell, you will find yourself inside a deeply nested data directory, ~notebooks/data/data/data/data/data/data/.  -->
  
- Select `Restart` from the Kernel Menu
- Select `Restart & Clear Output` from the Kernel Menu
- Select `Restart & Run All` from the Kernel Menu

## Clearing Cell Output Before Closing
<!-- what is "volume" referring to? -->
It is recommended to clear every output from each code cells prior to closing or saving a notebook. Leaving the output in place can increase file size of notebook, which will use up more of your volume as well as slower loading time for utlizing notebook (especially if you have a slow internet connection).
