user_docs/how_to_run_a_notebook.md, before:

# How to Run a Jupyter Notebook

### Before we get started, what is a Jupyter Notebook?
- [Intro to Jupyter Notebooks](jupyter_notebook_intro.md)

## Selecting Cells
#### Select a Single Cell in Non-Edit Mode
- Click to the left of a cell

 | ![Selected cell in non-edit mode](assets/select_cell_non_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a blue left edge* |
 
#### Select Multiple Cells in Non-Edit Mode
1. Select a cell in non-edit mode
- 'Shift + J' or 'Shift + Down-Arrow' selects additional cells below
- 'Shift + K' or 'Shift + Up-Arrow' selects additional cells above
- Perform batch operations on selected cells

 | ![Multpile selected cells](assets/select_mult_cells.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Multiple selected cells are surrounded by a blue highlighted box* |

#### Select a Code Cell in Edit Mode
- Click inside a cell

 | ![Selected code cell in edit mode](assets/select_cell_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge* |
 
#### Select a Markdown Cell in Edit Mode
- Double click inside a cell

 | ![Markdown cell in edit mode](assets/markdown_cell_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A markdown cell in edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge* |
 
 
## Running Cells
 | ![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](assets/cell_numbers.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Since code cells may be run in any order, they are numbered in the order they were run.* |

### Run a Single Code or Markdown Cell
#### With the Run Button
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
1. Click the Run button

 | ![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](assets/run_button.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Click the Run button to run a selected cell* |
 
#### With Hotkeys 
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
- 'Ctrl + Enter' runs a cell
- 'Shift + Enter' runs a cell and selects the cell below
- 'Alt + Enter' runs a cell and inserts an empty cell below

### Run a Cell and every Cell Above or Below It
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
- Select 'Run All Above' from the Cell Menu
- Select 'Run All Below' from the Cell menu

### Run a batch of selected cells
1. Select a group of cells
- Click the 'Run' Button
- Select 'Run Cells' from the Cells menu

### Run an Entire Notebook
- Select 'Run All' from the Cells Menu (does not restart the kernel)
- Select 'Restart & Run All' from the Kernel Menu

### Rerunning a Notebook
It is a best-practice to restart the notebook kernel before rerunning a notebook. 
This is because any initialized variables and data structures from a previous run 
will be stored in memory, along with their values, which can lead to unintended results.

- Select 'Restart' from the Kernel Menu
- Select 'Restart & Clear Output' from the Kernel Menu
- Select 'Restart & Run All' from the Kernel Menu

Commit message:

add code cell descrition to jupyter_notebook_intro

user_docs/how_to_run_a_notebook.md, after:

# How to Run a Jupyter Notebook

### Before we get started, what is a Jupyter Notebook?
- [Intro to Jupyter Notebooks](jupyter_notebook_intro.md)

## Selecting Cells
#### Select a Single Cell in Non-Edit Mode
- Click to the left of a cell

 | ![Selected cell in non-edit mode](assets/select_cell_non_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a blue left edge* |
 
#### Select Multiple Cells in Non-Edit Mode
1. Select a cell in non-edit mode
- 'Shift + J' or 'Shift + Down-Arrow' selects additional cells below
- 'Shift + K' or 'Shift + Up-Arrow' selects additional cells above
- Perform batch operations on selected cells

 | ![Multpile selected cells](assets/select_mult_cells.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Multiple selected cells are surrounded by a blue highlighted box* |

#### Select a Code Cell in Edit Mode
- Click inside a cell

 | ![Selected code cell in edit mode](assets/select_cell_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A selected cell in non-edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge* |
 
#### Select a Markdown Cell in Edit Mode
- Double click inside a cell

 | ![Markdown cell in edit mode](assets/markdown_cell_edit_mode.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *A markdown cell in edit mode is surrounded by a box with a green left edge* |
 
 
## Running Cells
 | ![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](assets/cell_numbers.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Since code cells may be run in any order, they are numbered in the order they were run.* |

### Run a Single Code or Markdown Cell
#### With the Run Button
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
1. Click the Run button

 | ![Clicking the Run button to run a cell](assets/run_button.png) | 
 |:-------------:|
 | *Click the Run button to run a selected cell* |
 
#### With Hotkeys 
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
- 'Ctrl + Enter' runs a cell
- 'Shift + Enter' runs a cell and selects the cell below
- 'Alt + Enter' runs a cell and inserts an empty cell below

### Run a Cell and every Cell Above or Below It
1. Select a cell in edit or non-edit mode
- Select 'Run All Above' from the Cell Menu
- Select 'Run All Below' from the Cell menu

### Run a batch of selected cells
1. Select a group of cells
- Click the 'Run' Button
- Select 'Run Cells' from the Cells menu

### Run an Entire Notebook
- Select 'Run All' from the Cells Menu (does not restart the kernel)
- Select 'Restart & Run All' from the Kernel Menu

### Rerunning a Notebook
It is a best-practice to restart the notebook kernel before rerunning a notebook. 
This is because any initialized variables and data structures from a previous run 
will be stored in memory, along with their values, which can lead to unintended results.

An example of how you might get into trouble would be a code cell that creates a new 
subdirectory directory in your current working directory called "data" and moves into 
it. If you start in ~/notebooks, then after running the code cell once, you will be in
~/notebooks/data. If you run the cell a second time, you will be in ~notebooks/data/data. If you keep rerunning the cell, you will find yourself
inside a deeply nested data directory, ~notebooks/data/data/data/data/data/data/. 
  
- Select 'Restart' from the Kernel Menu
- Select 'Restart & Clear Output' from the Kernel Menu
- Select 'Restart & Run All' from the Kernel Menu
